% Databases: Lab 3
% Database creation and use
% March 2019

# Objectives

- Use a database administration software
- Query a database
  - to create/update/read data
  - to create tables


# Context

You belong to the *Merigold* company, a logistics company specialized in fruits and vegetables delivery. Your company has a fleet of trucks deployed on the French roads depending on the deliveries schedules.

Every delivery is mapped to an order placed by another company and must be delivered at a given date and time in one of the warehouse of the company which has placed the order. Indeed a given company may have several warehouses. An order itself can include several products. They will be grouped onto palettes to simplify the driver's work.

An example of an order for Vegans Ltd is given below:

Product  | Quantity  | Delivery due date  | Delivery place  
--|---|---|--
Watermelons  | 300kg  | 2019/11/15 14:00  | 5 rue des rémouleurs, Poitiers
Potatoes  | 1000kg  |  2019/11/15 14:00 |  5 rue des rémouleurs, Poitiers
Strawberries  | 100kg  | 2019/11/15 16:30  | 8 rue des marchands, Bézier

When a driver hits the road with his/her truck, he has a mission order which indicates the deliveries to be made along with their dates and times. A delivery for a company always takes place at a warehouse.

Loading is performed on loading docks belonging to Merigold company. Seven of them exist in France, they are strategically located in France. Of course, the aforementioned mission order contains the loading dock as well as the loading date and time.

An example of mission order for driver DENT Arthur would look like this:

Loading: 5 allée Beltégueuse, Soumoulu, 2019/11/14 18:00

Company  | Wrehouse  | Date  | Product | Quantity  
--|---|---|---|
Vegans Ltd  | 5 rue des rémouleurs, Poitiers  |  2019/11/15 14:00  |  Watermelons | 300kg
SunnyCorp  | 14 rue de la Tour, Narbonne  | 2019/11/16 8:00  | Potatoes  | 1000kg
SunnyCorp  | 14 rue de la Tour, Narbonne  | 2019/11/16 8:00  | Peaches  | 300kg

When he/she unloads some products, the driver has a delivery slip signed. This delivery slip contains both the data and time of delivery and a list of the delivered products.

If a product that was ordered is missing, it will be delivered later.

All drivers have their own trucks. But, if the truck is currently under maintenance, a driver can be allowed to use a space truck.

# Step 1: modeling

1. Draw a logical model of the data (E/A).
2. Deduce a physcal model of data

the physical model may be built with SQL Power Architect. See the related slides on *hippocampus*.

# Creating the database

For that part, we we are going to use pgAdmin like in the Trains database lab.

For this part, you have to create the SQL script for creating the database and the related tables. The SQL table creation script can be written by hand or exported from SQL Power Architect.

# Populating the database
